spring-boot-docs/src/main/asciidoc/appendix-application-properties.adoc, before:

:numbered!:
[appendix]
[[common-application-properties]]
== Common application properties
Various properties can be specified inside your `application.properties`/`application.yml`
file or as command line switches. This section provides a list common Spring Boot
properties and references to the underlying classes that consume them.

NOTE: Property contributions can come from additional jar files on your classpath so
you should not consider this an exhaustive list. It is also perfectly legit to define
your own properties.

WARNING: This sample file is meant as a guide only. Do **not** copy/paste the entire
content into your application; rather pick only the properties that you need.


[source,properties,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes,macros"]
----
	# ===================================================================
	# COMMON SPRING BOOT PROPERTIES
	#
	# This sample file is provided as a guideline. Do NOT copy it in its
	# entirety to your own application.               ^^^
	# ===================================================================

	# ----------------------------------------
	# CORE PROPERTIES
	# ----------------------------------------

	# SPRING CONFIG ({sc-spring-boot}/context/config/ConfigFileApplicationListener.{sc-ext}[ConfigFileApplicationListener])
	spring.config.name= # config file name (default to 'application')
	spring.config.location= # location of config file

	# PROFILES
	spring.profiles= # comma list of active profiles

	# APPLICATION SETTINGS ({sc-spring-boot}/SpringApplication.{sc-ext}[SpringApplication])
	spring.main.sources=
	spring.main.web-environment= # detect by default
	spring.main.show-banner=true
	spring.main....= # see class for all properties

	# LOGGING
	logging.path=/var/logs
	logging.file=myapp.log
	logging.config=

	# IDENTITY ({sc-spring-boot}/context/ContextIdApplicationContextInitializer.{sc-ext}[ContextIdApplicationContextInitializer])
	spring.application.name=
	spring.application.index=

	# EMBEDDED SERVER CONFIGURATION ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/web/ServerProperties.{sc-ext}[ServerProperties])
	server.port=8080
	server.address= # bind to a specific NIC
	server.session-timeout= # session timeout in sections
	server.context-path= # the context path, defaults to '/'
	server.servlet-path= # the servlet path, defaults to '/'
	server.tomcat.access-log-pattern= # log pattern of the access log
	server.tomcat.access-log-enabled=false # is access logging enabled
	server.tomcat.protocol-header=x-forwarded-proto # ssl forward headers
	server.tomcat.remote-ip-header=x-forwarded-for
	server.tomcat.basedir=/tmp # base dir (usually not needed, defaults to tmp)
	server.tomcat.background-processor-delay=30; # in seconds
	server.tomcat.max-threads = 0 # number of threads in protocol handler
	server.tomcat.uri-encoding = UTF-8 # character encoding to use for URL decoding

	# SPRING MVC ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/web/HttpMapperProperties.{sc-ext}[HttpMapperProperties])
	http.mappers.json-pretty-print=false # pretty print JSON
	http.mappers.json-sort-keys=false # sort keys
	spring.mvc.locale= # set fixed locale, e.g. en_UK
	spring.view.prefix= # MVC view prefix
	spring.view.suffix= # ... and suffix
	spring.resources.cache-period= # cache timeouts in headers sent to browser

	# THYMELEAF ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/thymeleaf/ThymeleafAutoConfiguration.{sc-ext}[ThymeleafAutoConfiguration])
	spring.thymeleaf.prefix=classpath:/templates/
	spring.thymeleaf.suffix=.html
	spring.thymeleaf.mode=HTML5
	spring.thymeleaf.encoding=UTF-8
	spring.thymeleaf.content-type=text/html # ;charset=<encoding> is added
	spring.thymeleaf.cache=true # set to false for hot refresh

	# INTERNATIONALIZATION ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/MessageSourceAutoConfiguration.{sc-ext}[MessageSourceAutoConfiguration])
	spring.messages.basename=messages
	spring.messages.encoding=UTF-8
    spring.messages.cacheSeconds=-1

	[[common-application-properties-security]]
	# SECURITY ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/security/SecurityProperties.{sc-ext}[SecurityProperties])
	security.user.name=user # login username
	security.user.password= # login password
	security.user.role=USER # role assigned to the user
	security.require-ssl=false # advanced settings ...
	security.enable-csrf=false
	security.basic.enabled=true
	security.basic.realm=Spring
	security.basic.path= # /**
	security.headers.xss=false
	security.headers.cache=false
	security.headers.frame=false
	security.headers.contentType=false
	security.headers.hsts=all # none / domain / all
	security.sessions=stateless # always / never / if_required / stateless
	security.ignored=false

	# DATASOURCE ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/jdbc/DataSourceAutoConfiguration.{sc-ext}[DataSourceAutoConfiguration] & {sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}//jdbc/AbstractDataSourceConfiguration.{sc-ext}[AbstractDataSourceConfiguration])
	spring.datasource.name= # name of the data source
	spring.datasource.intialize=true # populate using data.sql
	spring.datasource.schema= # a schema resource reference
	spring.datasource.platform= # the platform to use in the schema resource (schema-${platform}.sql)
	spring.datasource.continueOnError=false # continue even if can't be initialized
	spring.datasource.separator=; # statement separator in SQL initialization scripts
	spring.datasource.driverClassName= # JDBC Settings...
	spring.datasource.url=
	spring.datasource.username=
	spring.datasource.password=
	spring.datasource.max-active=100 # Advanced configuration...
	spring.datasource.max-idle=8
	spring.datasource.min-idle=8
	spring.datasource.initial-size=10
	spring.datasource.validation-query=
	spring.datasource.test-on-borrow=false
	spring.datasource.test-on-return=false
	spring.datasource.test-while-idle=
	spring.datasource.time-between-eviction-runs-millis=
	spring.datasource.min-evictable-idle-time-millis=
	spring.datasource.max-wait-millis=

	# MONGODB ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/mongo/MongoProperties.{sc-ext}[MongoProperties])
	spring.data.mongodb.host= # the db host
	spring.data.mongodb.port=27017 # the connection port (defaults to 27107)
	spring.data.mongodb.uri=mongodb://localhost/test # connection URL

	# JPA ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/orm/jpa/JpaBaseConfiguration.{sc-ext}[JpaBaseConfiguration], {sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/orm/jpa/HibernateJpaAutoConfiguration.{sc-ext}[HibernateJpaAutoConfiguration])
	spring.jpa.properties.*= # properties to set on the JPA connection
	spring.jpa.openInView=true
	spring.jpa.show-sql=true
	spring.jpa.database-platform=
	spring.jpa.database=
	spring.jpa.generate-ddl=
	spring.jpa.hibernate.naming-strategy= # naming classname
	spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto= # defaults to create-drop for embedded dbs

	# JMX
	spring.jmx.enabled=true # Expose MBeans from Spring

	# RABBIT ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/amqp/RabbitProperties.{sc-ext}[RabbitProperties])
	spring.rabbitmq.host= # connection host
	spring.rabbitmq.port= # connection port
	spring.rabbitmq.addresses= # connection addresses (e.g. myhost:9999,otherhost:1111)
	spring.rabbitmq.username= # login user
	spring.rabbitmq.password= # login password
	spring.rabbitmq.virtualhost=
	spring.rabbitmq.dynamic=


	# REDIS ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/redis/RedisProperties.{sc-ext}[RedisProperties])
	spring.redis.host=localhost # server host
	spring.redis.password= # server password
	spring.redis.port=6379 # connection port
	spring.redis.pool.max-idle=8 # pool settings ...
	spring.redis.pool.min-idle=0
	spring.redis.pool.max-active=8
	spring.redis.pool.max-wait=-1

	# ACTIVEMQ ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/jms/ActiveMQProperties.{sc-ext}[ActiveMQProperties])
	spring.activemq.broker-url=tcp://localhost:61616 # connection URL
    spring.activemq.user=
    spring.activemq.password=
	spring.activemq.in-memory=true
	spring.activemq.pooled=false

	# JMS ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/jms/JmsTemplateProperties.{sc-ext}[JmsTemplateProperties])
	spring.jms.pub-sub-domain=

	# SPRING BATCH ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/batch/BatchDatabaseInitializer.{sc-ext}[BatchDatabaseInitializer])
	spring.batch.job.names=job1,job2
	spring.batch.job.enabled=true
	spring.batch.initializer.enabled=true
	spring.batch.schema= # batch schema to load

	# AOP
	spring.aop.auto=
	spring.aop.proxyTargetClass=

	# FILE ENCODING ({sc-spring-boot}/context/FileEncodingApplicationListener.{sc-ext}[FileEncodingApplicationListener])
	spring.mandatory-file-encoding=false

	# ----------------------------------------
	# ACTUATOR PROPERTIES
	# ----------------------------------------

	# MANAGEMENT HTTP SERVER ({sc-spring-boot-actuator}/autoconfigure/ManagementServerProperties.{sc-ext}[ManagementServerProperties])
	management.port= # defaults to 'server.port'
	management.address= # bind to a specific NIC
	management.contextPath= # default to '/'

	# ENDPOINTS ({sc-spring-boot-actuator}/endpoint/AbstractEndpoint.{sc-ext}[AbstractEndpoint] subclasses)
	endpoints.autoconfig.id=autoconfig
	endpoints.autoconfig.sensitive=true
	endpoints.autoconfig.enabled=true
	endpoints.beans.id=beans
	endpoints.beans.sensitive=true
	endpoints.beans.enabled=true
	endpoints.configprops.id=configprops
	endpoints.configprops.sensitive=true
	endpoints.configprops.enabled=true
	endpoints.configprops.keys-to-sanitize=password,secret
	endpoints.dump.id=dump
	endpoints.dump.sensitive=true
	endpoints.dump.enabled=true
	endpoints.env.id=env
	endpoints.env.sensitive=true
	endpoints.env.enabled=true
	endpoints.health.id=health
	endpoints.health.sensitive=false
	endpoints.health.enabled=true
	endpoints.info.id=info
	endpoints.info.sensitive=false
	endpoints.info.enabled=true
	endpoints.metrics.id=metrics
	endpoints.metrics.sensitive=true
	endpoints.metrics.enabled=true
	endpoints.shutdown.id=shutdown
	endpoints.shutdown.sensitive=true
	endpoints.shutdown.enabled=false
	endpoints.trace.id=trace
	endpoints.trace.sensitive=true
	endpoints.trace.enabled=true

	# MVC ONLY ENDPOINTS
	endpoints.jolokia.path=jolokia
	endpoints.jolokia.sensitive=true
	endpoints.jolokia.enabled=true # when using Jolokia
	endpoints.error.path=/error

	# JMX ENDPOINT ({sc-spring-boot-actuator}/autoconfigure/EndpointMBeanExportProperties.{sc-ext}[EndpointMBeanExportProperties])
	endpoints.jmx.enabled=true
	endpoints.jmx.domain= # the JMX domain, defaults to 'org.springboot'
	endpoints.jmx.unique-names=false
	endpoints.jmx.enabled=true
	endpoints.jmx.staticNames=

	# JOLOKIA ({sc-spring-boot-actuator}/autoconfigure/JolokiaProperties.{sc-ext}[JolokiaProperties])
	jolokia.config.*= # See Jolokia manual

	# REMOTE SHELL
	shell.auth=simple # jaas, key, simple, spring
	shell.command-refresh-interval=-1
	shell.command-path-pattern= # classpath*:/commands/**, classpath*:/crash/commands/**
	shell.config-path-patterns= # classpath*:/crash/*
	shell.disabled-plugins=false # don't expose plugins
	shell.ssh.enabled= # ssh settings ...
	shell.ssh.keyPath=
	shell.ssh.port=
	shell.telnet.enabled= # telnet settings ...
	shell.telnet.port=
	shell.auth.jaas.domain= # authentication settings ...
	shell.auth.key.path=
	shell.auth.simple.user.name=
	shell.auth.simple.user.password=
	shell.auth.spring.roles=

	# GIT INFO
	spring.git.properties= # resource ref to generated git info properties file
----

Commit message:

Fix JmsTemplate default pubSubDomain setting
Prior to this commit, a JmsTemplate bean created automatically by Boot
had its "pubSubDomain" flag enabled. It's far more usual to fallback on
queue rather than topic.

This commit flips the default value of the configuration property.

spring-boot-docs/src/main/asciidoc/appendix-application-properties.adoc, after:

:numbered!:
[appendix]
[[common-application-properties]]
== Common application properties
Various properties can be specified inside your `application.properties`/`application.yml`
file or as command line switches. This section provides a list common Spring Boot
properties and references to the underlying classes that consume them.

NOTE: Property contributions can come from additional jar files on your classpath so
you should not consider this an exhaustive list. It is also perfectly legit to define
your own properties.

WARNING: This sample file is meant as a guide only. Do **not** copy/paste the entire
content into your application; rather pick only the properties that you need.


[source,properties,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes,macros"]
----
	# ===================================================================
	# COMMON SPRING BOOT PROPERTIES
	#
	# This sample file is provided as a guideline. Do NOT copy it in its
	# entirety to your own application.               ^^^
	# ===================================================================

	# ----------------------------------------
	# CORE PROPERTIES
	# ----------------------------------------

	# SPRING CONFIG ({sc-spring-boot}/context/config/ConfigFileApplicationListener.{sc-ext}[ConfigFileApplicationListener])
	spring.config.name= # config file name (default to 'application')
	spring.config.location= # location of config file

	# PROFILES
	spring.profiles= # comma list of active profiles

	# APPLICATION SETTINGS ({sc-spring-boot}/SpringApplication.{sc-ext}[SpringApplication])
	spring.main.sources=
	spring.main.web-environment= # detect by default
	spring.main.show-banner=true
	spring.main....= # see class for all properties

	# LOGGING
	logging.path=/var/logs
	logging.file=myapp.log
	logging.config=

	# IDENTITY ({sc-spring-boot}/context/ContextIdApplicationContextInitializer.{sc-ext}[ContextIdApplicationContextInitializer])
	spring.application.name=
	spring.application.index=

	# EMBEDDED SERVER CONFIGURATION ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/web/ServerProperties.{sc-ext}[ServerProperties])
	server.port=8080
	server.address= # bind to a specific NIC
	server.session-timeout= # session timeout in sections
	server.context-path= # the context path, defaults to '/'
	server.servlet-path= # the servlet path, defaults to '/'
	server.tomcat.access-log-pattern= # log pattern of the access log
	server.tomcat.access-log-enabled=false # is access logging enabled
	server.tomcat.protocol-header=x-forwarded-proto # ssl forward headers
	server.tomcat.remote-ip-header=x-forwarded-for
	server.tomcat.basedir=/tmp # base dir (usually not needed, defaults to tmp)
	server.tomcat.background-processor-delay=30; # in seconds
	server.tomcat.max-threads = 0 # number of threads in protocol handler
	server.tomcat.uri-encoding = UTF-8 # character encoding to use for URL decoding

	# SPRING MVC ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/web/HttpMapperProperties.{sc-ext}[HttpMapperProperties])
	http.mappers.json-pretty-print=false # pretty print JSON
	http.mappers.json-sort-keys=false # sort keys
	spring.mvc.locale= # set fixed locale, e.g. en_UK
	spring.view.prefix= # MVC view prefix
	spring.view.suffix= # ... and suffix
	spring.resources.cache-period= # cache timeouts in headers sent to browser

	# THYMELEAF ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/thymeleaf/ThymeleafAutoConfiguration.{sc-ext}[ThymeleafAutoConfiguration])
	spring.thymeleaf.prefix=classpath:/templates/
	spring.thymeleaf.suffix=.html
	spring.thymeleaf.mode=HTML5
	spring.thymeleaf.encoding=UTF-8
	spring.thymeleaf.content-type=text/html # ;charset=<encoding> is added
	spring.thymeleaf.cache=true # set to false for hot refresh

	# INTERNATIONALIZATION ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/MessageSourceAutoConfiguration.{sc-ext}[MessageSourceAutoConfiguration])
	spring.messages.basename=messages
	spring.messages.encoding=UTF-8
    spring.messages.cacheSeconds=-1

	[[common-application-properties-security]]
	# SECURITY ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/security/SecurityProperties.{sc-ext}[SecurityProperties])
	security.user.name=user # login username
	security.user.password= # login password
	security.user.role=USER # role assigned to the user
	security.require-ssl=false # advanced settings ...
	security.enable-csrf=false
	security.basic.enabled=true
	security.basic.realm=Spring
	security.basic.path= # /**
	security.headers.xss=false
	security.headers.cache=false
	security.headers.frame=false
	security.headers.contentType=false
	security.headers.hsts=all # none / domain / all
	security.sessions=stateless # always / never / if_required / stateless
	security.ignored=false

	# DATASOURCE ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/jdbc/DataSourceAutoConfiguration.{sc-ext}[DataSourceAutoConfiguration] & {sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}//jdbc/AbstractDataSourceConfiguration.{sc-ext}[AbstractDataSourceConfiguration])
	spring.datasource.name= # name of the data source
	spring.datasource.intialize=true # populate using data.sql
	spring.datasource.schema= # a schema resource reference
	spring.datasource.platform= # the platform to use in the schema resource (schema-${platform}.sql)
	spring.datasource.continueOnError=false # continue even if can't be initialized
	spring.datasource.separator=; # statement separator in SQL initialization scripts
	spring.datasource.driverClassName= # JDBC Settings...
	spring.datasource.url=
	spring.datasource.username=
	spring.datasource.password=
	spring.datasource.max-active=100 # Advanced configuration...
	spring.datasource.max-idle=8
	spring.datasource.min-idle=8
	spring.datasource.initial-size=10
	spring.datasource.validation-query=
	spring.datasource.test-on-borrow=false
	spring.datasource.test-on-return=false
	spring.datasource.test-while-idle=
	spring.datasource.time-between-eviction-runs-millis=
	spring.datasource.min-evictable-idle-time-millis=
	spring.datasource.max-wait-millis=

	# MONGODB ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/mongo/MongoProperties.{sc-ext}[MongoProperties])
	spring.data.mongodb.host= # the db host
	spring.data.mongodb.port=27017 # the connection port (defaults to 27107)
	spring.data.mongodb.uri=mongodb://localhost/test # connection URL

	# JPA ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/orm/jpa/JpaBaseConfiguration.{sc-ext}[JpaBaseConfiguration], {sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/orm/jpa/HibernateJpaAutoConfiguration.{sc-ext}[HibernateJpaAutoConfiguration])
	spring.jpa.properties.*= # properties to set on the JPA connection
	spring.jpa.openInView=true
	spring.jpa.show-sql=true
	spring.jpa.database-platform=
	spring.jpa.database=
	spring.jpa.generate-ddl=
	spring.jpa.hibernate.naming-strategy= # naming classname
	spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto= # defaults to create-drop for embedded dbs

	# JMX
	spring.jmx.enabled=true # Expose MBeans from Spring

	# RABBIT ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/amqp/RabbitProperties.{sc-ext}[RabbitProperties])
	spring.rabbitmq.host= # connection host
	spring.rabbitmq.port= # connection port
	spring.rabbitmq.addresses= # connection addresses (e.g. myhost:9999,otherhost:1111)
	spring.rabbitmq.username= # login user
	spring.rabbitmq.password= # login password
	spring.rabbitmq.virtualhost=
	spring.rabbitmq.dynamic=


	# REDIS ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/redis/RedisProperties.{sc-ext}[RedisProperties])
	spring.redis.host=localhost # server host
	spring.redis.password= # server password
	spring.redis.port=6379 # connection port
	spring.redis.pool.max-idle=8 # pool settings ...
	spring.redis.pool.min-idle=0
	spring.redis.pool.max-active=8
	spring.redis.pool.max-wait=-1

	# ACTIVEMQ ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/jms/ActiveMQProperties.{sc-ext}[ActiveMQProperties])
	spring.activemq.broker-url=tcp://localhost:61616 # connection URL
    spring.activemq.user=
    spring.activemq.password=
	spring.activemq.in-memory=true
	spring.activemq.pooled=false

	# JMS ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/jms/JmsTemplateProperties.{sc-ext}[JmsTemplateProperties])
	spring.jms.pub-sub-domain= # false for queue (default), true for topic

	# SPRING BATCH ({sc-spring-boot-autoconfigure}/batch/BatchDatabaseInitializer.{sc-ext}[BatchDatabaseInitializer])
	spring.batch.job.names=job1,job2
	spring.batch.job.enabled=true
	spring.batch.initializer.enabled=true
	spring.batch.schema= # batch schema to load

	# AOP
	spring.aop.auto=
	spring.aop.proxyTargetClass=

	# FILE ENCODING ({sc-spring-boot}/context/FileEncodingApplicationListener.{sc-ext}[FileEncodingApplicationListener])
	spring.mandatory-file-encoding=false

	# ----------------------------------------
	# ACTUATOR PROPERTIES
	# ----------------------------------------

	# MANAGEMENT HTTP SERVER ({sc-spring-boot-actuator}/autoconfigure/ManagementServerProperties.{sc-ext}[ManagementServerProperties])
	management.port= # defaults to 'server.port'
	management.address= # bind to a specific NIC
	management.contextPath= # default to '/'

	# ENDPOINTS ({sc-spring-boot-actuator}/endpoint/AbstractEndpoint.{sc-ext}[AbstractEndpoint] subclasses)
	endpoints.autoconfig.id=autoconfig
	endpoints.autoconfig.sensitive=true
	endpoints.autoconfig.enabled=true
	endpoints.beans.id=beans
	endpoints.beans.sensitive=true
	endpoints.beans.enabled=true
	endpoints.configprops.id=configprops
	endpoints.configprops.sensitive=true
	endpoints.configprops.enabled=true
	endpoints.configprops.keys-to-sanitize=password,secret
	endpoints.dump.id=dump
	endpoints.dump.sensitive=true
	endpoints.dump.enabled=true
	endpoints.env.id=env
	endpoints.env.sensitive=true
	endpoints.env.enabled=true
	endpoints.health.id=health
	endpoints.health.sensitive=false
	endpoints.health.enabled=true
	endpoints.info.id=info
	endpoints.info.sensitive=false
	endpoints.info.enabled=true
	endpoints.metrics.id=metrics
	endpoints.metrics.sensitive=true
	endpoints.metrics.enabled=true
	endpoints.shutdown.id=shutdown
	endpoints.shutdown.sensitive=true
	endpoints.shutdown.enabled=false
	endpoints.trace.id=trace
	endpoints.trace.sensitive=true
	endpoints.trace.enabled=true

	# MVC ONLY ENDPOINTS
	endpoints.jolokia.path=jolokia
	endpoints.jolokia.sensitive=true
	endpoints.jolokia.enabled=true # when using Jolokia
	endpoints.error.path=/error

	# JMX ENDPOINT ({sc-spring-boot-actuator}/autoconfigure/EndpointMBeanExportProperties.{sc-ext}[EndpointMBeanExportProperties])
	endpoints.jmx.enabled=true
	endpoints.jmx.domain= # the JMX domain, defaults to 'org.springboot'
	endpoints.jmx.unique-names=false
	endpoints.jmx.enabled=true
	endpoints.jmx.staticNames=

	# JOLOKIA ({sc-spring-boot-actuator}/autoconfigure/JolokiaProperties.{sc-ext}[JolokiaProperties])
	jolokia.config.*= # See Jolokia manual

	# REMOTE SHELL
	shell.auth=simple # jaas, key, simple, spring
	shell.command-refresh-interval=-1
	shell.command-path-pattern= # classpath*:/commands/**, classpath*:/crash/commands/**
	shell.config-path-patterns= # classpath*:/crash/*
	shell.disabled-plugins=false # don't expose plugins
	shell.ssh.enabled= # ssh settings ...
	shell.ssh.keyPath=
	shell.ssh.port=
	shell.telnet.enabled= # telnet settings ...
	shell.telnet.port=
	shell.auth.jaas.domain= # authentication settings ...
	shell.auth.key.path=
	shell.auth.simple.user.name=
	shell.auth.simple.user.password=
	shell.auth.spring.roles=

	# GIT INFO
	spring.git.properties= # resource ref to generated git info properties file
----
