spring-boot-docs/src/main/asciidoc/appendix-configuration-metadata.adoc, before:

[appendix]
[[configuration-metadata]]
== Configuration meta-data
Spring Boot jars are shipped with meta-data files that provide details of all supported
configuration properties. The files are designed to allow IDE developers to offer
contextual help and "`code completion`" as users are working with `application.properies`
or `application.yml` files.

The majority of the meta-data file is generated automatically at compile time by
processing all items annotated with `@ConfigurationProperties`.



[[configuration-metadata-format]]
=== Meta-data format
Configuration meta-data files are located inside jars under
`META-INF/spring-configuration-metadata.json` They use a simple JSON format with items
categorized under either "`groups`" or "`properties`":

[source,json,indent=0]
----
	{"groups": [
		{
			"name": "server",
			"type": "org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.web.ServerProperties",
			"sourceType": "org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.web.ServerProperties"
		}
		...
	],"properties": [
		{
			"name": "server.port",
			"type": "java.lang.Integer",
			"sourceType": "org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.web.ServerProperties"
		},
		{
			"name": "server.servlet-path",
			"type": "java.lang.String",
			"sourceType": "org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.web.ServerProperties"
			"defaultValue": "/"
		}
		...
	]}
----

Each "`property`" is a configuration item that the user specifies with a given value.
For example `server.port` and `server.servlet-path` might be specified in
`application.properties` as follows:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
	server.port=9090
	server.servlet-path=/home
----

The "`groups`" are higher level items that don't themselves specify a value, but instead
provide a contextual grouping for properties. For example the `server.port` and
`server.servlet-path` properties are part of the `server` group.

NOTE: It is not required that every "`property`" has a "`group`", some properties might
just exist in their own right.



[[configuration-metadata-group-attributes]]
==== Group Attributes
The JSON object contained in the `groups` array can contain the following attributes:

[cols="1,1,4"]
|===
|Name | Type |Purpose

|`name`
| String
| The full name of the group. This attribute is mandatory.

|`type`
| String
| The class name of the data type of the group. For example, if the group was based
  on a class annotated with `@ConfigurationProperties` the attribute would contain the
  fully qualified name of that class. If it was based on a `@Bean` method, it would be
  the return type of that method. The attribute may be omitted if the type is not known.

|`description`
| String
| A short description of the group that can be displayed to users. May be omitted if no
  description is available.

|`sourceType`
| String
| The class name of the source that contributed this group. For example, if the group
  was based on a `@Bean` method annotated with `@ConfigurationProperties` this attribute
  would contain the fully qualified name of the `@Configuration` class containing the
  method. The attribute may be omitted if the source type is not known.

|`sourceMethod`
| String
| The full name of the method (include parenthesis and argument types) that contributed
  this group. For example, the name of a `@ConfigurationProperties` annotated `@Bean`
  method.  May be omitted if the source method is not known.
|===



[[configuration-metadata-property-attributes]]
==== Property Attributes
The JSON object contained in the `properties` array can contain the following attributes:

[cols="1,1,4"]
|===
|Name | Type |Purpose

|`name`
| String
| The full name of the property. Names are in lowercase dashed form (e.g.
  `server.servlet-path`). This attribute is mandatory.

|`type`
| String
| The class name of the data type of the property. For example, `java.lang.String`. This
  attribute can be used to guide the user as to the types of values that they can enter.
  For consistency, the type of a primitive is specified using its wrapper counterpart,
  i.e. `boolean` becomes `java.lang.Boolean`. Note that this class may be a complex type
  that gets converted from a String as values are bound. May be omitted if the type is
  not known.

|`description`
| String
| A short description of the property that can be displayed to users. May be omitted if
  no description is available.

|`sourceType`
| String
| The class name of the source that contributed this property. For example, if the
  property was from a class annotated with `@ConfigurationProperties` this attribute
  would contain the fully qualified name of that class. May be omitted if the source type
  is not known.

|`sourceMethod`
| String
| The full name of the method (include parenthesis and argument types) that contributed
  this property. For example, the name of a getter in a `@ConfigurationProperties`
  annotated class.  May be omitted if the source method is not known.

|`defaultValue`
| Object
| The default value which will be used if the property is not specified. May be omitted
  if the default value is not known.
|===



[[configuration-metadata-repeated-items]]
==== Repeated meta-data items
It is perfectly acceptable for "`property`" and "`group`" objects with the same name to
appear multiple times within a meta-data file. For example, Spring Boot binds
`spring.datasource` properties to Hikari, Tomcat and DBCP classes, with each potentially
offering overlap of property names. Consumers of meta-data should take care to ensure
that they support such scenarios.



[[configuration-metadata-annotation-processor]]
=== Generating your own meta-data using the annotation processor
You can easily generate your own configuration meta-data file from items annotated with
`@ConfigurationProperties` by using the `spring-boot-configuration-processor` jar.
The jar includes a Java annotation processor which is invoked as your project is
compiled. To use the processor, simply include `spring-boot-configuration-processor` as
an optional dependency, for example with Maven you would add:

[source,xml,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
		<artifactId>spring-boot-configuration-processor</artifactId>
		<optional>true</optional>
	</dependency>
----

The annotation will pickup both classes and methods that are annotated with
`@ConfigurationProperties`. The Javadoc for field values within configuration classes
will be used to populate the `description` attribute.

NOTE: You should only use simple text with `@ConfigurationProperties` field Javadoc since
they are not processed before being added to the JSON.



[[configuration-metadata-nested-properties]]
==== Nested properties
The annotation processor will automatically consider inner classes as nested properties.
For example, the following class:

[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
	@ConfigurationProperties(prefix="server")
	public class ServerProperties {

		private String name;

		private Host host;

		// ... getter and setters

		private static class Host {

			private String ip;

			private int port;

			// ... getter and setters

		}

	}
----

Will produce meta-data information for `server.name`, `server.host.ip` and
`server.host.port` properties. You can use the `@NestedConfigurationProperty`
annotation on a field to indicate that a regular (non-inner) class should be treated as
if it were nested.



[[configuration-metadata-additional-metadata]]
==== Adding additional meta-data
Spring Boot's configuration file handling is quite flexible; and it often the case that
properties may exist that are not bound to a `@ConfigurationProperties` bean. To support
such cases, the annotation processor will automatically merge items from
`META-INF/additional-spring-configuration-metadata.json` into the main meta-data file.

The format of the `additional-spring-configuration-metadata.json` file is exactly the same
as the regular `spring-configuration-metadata.json`. The additional properties file is
optional, if you don't have any additional properties, simply don't add it.

Commit message:

Add documentation for the deprecated field

spring-boot-docs/src/main/asciidoc/appendix-configuration-metadata.adoc, after:

[appendix]
[[configuration-metadata]]
== Configuration meta-data
Spring Boot jars are shipped with meta-data files that provide details of all supported
configuration properties. The files are designed to allow IDE developers to offer
contextual help and "`code completion`" as users are working with `application.properies`
or `application.yml` files.

The majority of the meta-data file is generated automatically at compile time by
processing all items annotated with `@ConfigurationProperties`.



[[configuration-metadata-format]]
=== Meta-data format
Configuration meta-data files are located inside jars under
`META-INF/spring-configuration-metadata.json` They use a simple JSON format with items
categorized under either "`groups`" or "`properties`":

[source,json,indent=0]
----
	{"groups": [
		{
			"name": "server",
			"type": "org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.web.ServerProperties",
			"sourceType": "org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.web.ServerProperties"
		}
		...
	],"properties": [
		{
			"name": "server.port",
			"type": "java.lang.Integer",
			"sourceType": "org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.web.ServerProperties"
		},
		{
			"name": "server.servlet-path",
			"type": "java.lang.String",
			"sourceType": "org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.web.ServerProperties"
			"defaultValue": "/"
		}
		...
	]}
----

Each "`property`" is a configuration item that the user specifies with a given value.
For example `server.port` and `server.servlet-path` might be specified in
`application.properties` as follows:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
	server.port=9090
	server.servlet-path=/home
----

The "`groups`" are higher level items that don't themselves specify a value, but instead
provide a contextual grouping for properties. For example the `server.port` and
`server.servlet-path` properties are part of the `server` group.

NOTE: It is not required that every "`property`" has a "`group`", some properties might
just exist in their own right.



[[configuration-metadata-group-attributes]]
==== Group Attributes
The JSON object contained in the `groups` array can contain the following attributes:

[cols="1,1,4"]
|===
|Name | Type |Purpose

|`name`
| String
| The full name of the group. This attribute is mandatory.

|`type`
| String
| The class name of the data type of the group. For example, if the group was based
  on a class annotated with `@ConfigurationProperties` the attribute would contain the
  fully qualified name of that class. If it was based on a `@Bean` method, it would be
  the return type of that method. The attribute may be omitted if the type is not known.

|`description`
| String
| A short description of the group that can be displayed to users. May be omitted if no
  description is available.

|`sourceType`
| String
| The class name of the source that contributed this group. For example, if the group
  was based on a `@Bean` method annotated with `@ConfigurationProperties` this attribute
  would contain the fully qualified name of the `@Configuration` class containing the
  method. The attribute may be omitted if the source type is not known.

|`sourceMethod`
| String
| The full name of the method (include parenthesis and argument types) that contributed
  this group. For example, the name of a `@ConfigurationProperties` annotated `@Bean`
  method.  May be omitted if the source method is not known.
|===



[[configuration-metadata-property-attributes]]
==== Property Attributes
The JSON object contained in the `properties` array can contain the following attributes:

[cols="1,1,4"]
|===
|Name | Type |Purpose

|`name`
| String
| The full name of the property. Names are in lowercase dashed form (e.g.
  `server.servlet-path`). This attribute is mandatory.

|`type`
| String
| The class name of the data type of the property. For example, `java.lang.String`. This
  attribute can be used to guide the user as to the types of values that they can enter.
  For consistency, the type of a primitive is specified using its wrapper counterpart,
  i.e. `boolean` becomes `java.lang.Boolean`. Note that this class may be a complex type
  that gets converted from a String as values are bound. May be omitted if the type is
  not known.

|`description`
| String
| A short description of the property that can be displayed to users. May be omitted if
  no description is available.

|`sourceType`
| String
| The class name of the source that contributed this property. For example, if the
  property was from a class annotated with `@ConfigurationProperties` this attribute
  would contain the fully qualified name of that class. May be omitted if the source type
  is not known.

|`sourceMethod`
| String
| The full name of the method (include parenthesis and argument types) that contributed
  this property. For example, the name of a getter in a `@ConfigurationProperties`
  annotated class.  May be omitted if the source method is not known.

|`defaultValue`
| Object
| The default value which will be used if the property is not specified. May be omitted
  if the default value is not known.

|`deprecated`
| boolean
| Specify if the property is deprecated. May be omitted if the field is not deprecated
  or if that information is not known.
|===



[[configuration-metadata-repeated-items]]
==== Repeated meta-data items
It is perfectly acceptable for "`property`" and "`group`" objects with the same name to
appear multiple times within a meta-data file. For example, Spring Boot binds
`spring.datasource` properties to Hikari, Tomcat and DBCP classes, with each potentially
offering overlap of property names. Consumers of meta-data should take care to ensure
that they support such scenarios.



[[configuration-metadata-annotation-processor]]
=== Generating your own meta-data using the annotation processor
You can easily generate your own configuration meta-data file from items annotated with
`@ConfigurationProperties` by using the `spring-boot-configuration-processor` jar.
The jar includes a Java annotation processor which is invoked as your project is
compiled. To use the processor, simply include `spring-boot-configuration-processor` as
an optional dependency, for example with Maven you would add:

[source,xml,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
		<artifactId>spring-boot-configuration-processor</artifactId>
		<optional>true</optional>
	</dependency>
----

The annotation will pickup both classes and methods that are annotated with
`@ConfigurationProperties`. The Javadoc for field values within configuration classes
will be used to populate the `description` attribute.

NOTE: You should only use simple text with `@ConfigurationProperties` field Javadoc since
they are not processed before being added to the JSON.



[[configuration-metadata-nested-properties]]
==== Nested properties
The annotation processor will automatically consider inner classes as nested properties.
For example, the following class:

[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
	@ConfigurationProperties(prefix="server")
	public class ServerProperties {

		private String name;

		private Host host;

		// ... getter and setters

		private static class Host {

			private String ip;

			private int port;

			// ... getter and setters

		}

	}
----

Will produce meta-data information for `server.name`, `server.host.ip` and
`server.host.port` properties. You can use the `@NestedConfigurationProperty`
annotation on a field to indicate that a regular (non-inner) class should be treated as
if it were nested.



[[configuration-metadata-additional-metadata]]
==== Adding additional meta-data
Spring Boot's configuration file handling is quite flexible; and it often the case that
properties may exist that are not bound to a `@ConfigurationProperties` bean. To support
such cases, the annotation processor will automatically merge items from
`META-INF/additional-spring-configuration-metadata.json` into the main meta-data file.

The format of the `additional-spring-configuration-metadata.json` file is exactly the same
as the regular `spring-configuration-metadata.json`. The additional properties file is
optional, if you don't have any additional properties, simply don't add it.
