spring-boot-docs/src/main/asciidoc/documentation-overview.adoc, before:

[[boot-documentation]]
= Spring Boot Documentation

[partintro]
--
This section provides a brief overview of Spring Boot reference documentation. Think of
it as map for the rest of the document. You can read this reference guide in a linear
fashion, or you can skip sections if something doesn't interest you.

--


[[boot-documentation-getting-help]]
== Getting help
Having trouble with Spring Boot, We'd like to help!

* Try the <<howto.adoc#howto, How-to's>> -- they provide solutions to the most common
  questions.
* Learn the Spring basics -- Spring Boot is builds on many other Spring projects, check
  the http://spring.io[spring.io] web-site for a wealth of reference documentation. If
  you are just starting out with Spring, try one of the http://spring.io/guides[guides].
* Ask a questions - we monitor http://stackoverflow.com[stackoverflow.com] for questions
  tagged with http://stackoverflow.com/tags/spring-boot[`spring-boot`].
* Report bugs with Spring Boot at https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/issues.

NOTE: All of Spring Boot is open source, including the documentation! If you find problems
with the docs; or if you just want to improve them, please <<github-code, get involved>>.

[[boot-documentation-first-steps]]
== First steps
If your just getting started with Spring Boot, or 'Spring' in general,
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started, this is the place to start!>>

* *From scratch:*
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-introducing-spring-boot, Overview>> |
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-installing-spring-boot, Installation>>
* *Tutorial:*
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application, Part 1>> |
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-code, Part 2>>
* *Running your example:*
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-run, Part 1>> |
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-executable-jar, Part 2>>



== Working with Spring Boot
Ready to actually start using Spring Boot? <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot, We've
got you covered>>.

* *Build systems:*
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-maven, Maven>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-gradle, Gradle>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-ant, Ant>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-starter-poms, Starter POMs>>
* *Best practices:*
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-structuring-your-code, Code Structure>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-configuration-classes, @Configuration>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-auto-configuration, @EnableAutoConfiguration>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-spring-beans-and-dependency-injection, Beans and Dependency Injection>>
* *Running your code*
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-from-an-ide, IDE>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-as-a-packaged-application, Packaged>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-with-the-maven-plugin, Maven>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-with-the-gradle-plugin, Gradle>>
* *Packaging your app:*
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-packaging-for-production, Production jars>>
* *Spring Boot CLI:*
<<using-spring-boot-cli.adoc#cli, Using the CLI>>

== Learning about Spring Boot features
Need more details about Spring Boot's core features?
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features, This is for you>>!

* *Core Features:*
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-spring-application, SpringApplication>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-external-config, External Configuration>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-profiles, Profiles>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-logging, Logging>>
* *Web Applications:*
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-spring-mvc, MVC>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-embedded-container, Embedded Containers>>
* *Working with data:*
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-sql, SQL>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-nosql, NO-SQL>>
* *Testing:*
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-testing, Overview>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-testing-spring-boot-applications, Boot Applications>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-test-utilities, Utils>>
* *Extending:*
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-developing-auto-configuration, Auto-configuration>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-condition-annotations, @Conditions>>


== Moving to production
When your ready to push your Spring Boot application to production, we've got
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready, some tricks that you might like>>!

* *Management endpoints:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-endpoints, Overview>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-customizing-endpoints, Customization>>
* *Connection options:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-monitoring, HTTP>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-jmx, JMX>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-remote-shell, SSH>>
* *Monitoring:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-metrics, Metrics>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-auditing, Auditing>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-tracing, Tracing>>

== Advanced topics
Lastly, we have a few topics for the more advanced user.

* *Deploy to the cloud:*
<<cloud-deployment.adoc#cloud-deployment-cloud-foundry, Cloud Foundry>> |
<<cloud-deployment.adoc#cloud-deployment-heroku, Heroku>> |
<<cloud-deployment.adoc#cloud-deployment-cloudbees, CloudBees>>
* *Build tool plugins:*
<<build-tool-plugins.adoc#build-tool-plugins-maven-plugin, Maven>> |
<<build-tool-plugins.adoc#build-tool-plugins-gradle-plugin, Gradle>>
* *Appendix:*
<<appendix-application-properties.adoc#common-application-properties, Application Properties>> |
<<appendix-auto-configuration-classes.adoc#auto-configuration-classes, Auto-configuration classes>> |
<<appendix-executable-jar-format.adoc#executable-jar, Executable Jars>>

Commit message:

Note different document formats in reference guide
Fixes gh-570

spring-boot-docs/src/main/asciidoc/documentation-overview.adoc, after:

[[boot-documentation]]
= Spring Boot Documentation

[partintro]
--
This section provides a brief overview of Spring Boot reference documentation. Think of
it as map for the rest of the document. You can read this reference guide in a linear
fashion, or you can skip sections if something doesn't interest you.
--



[[boot-documentation-about]]
== About the documentation
The Spring Boot reference guide is available as {spring-boot-docs}/html[html],
{spring-boot-docs}/pdf/spring-boot-reference.pdf[pdf]
and {spring-boot-docs}/epub/spring-boot-reference.epub[epub] documents. The latest copy
is available at {spring-boot-docs-current}.

Copies of this document may be made for your own use and for
distribution to others, provided that you do not charge any fee for such copies and
further provided that each copy contains this Copyright Notice, whether distributed in
print or electronically.



[[boot-documentation-getting-help]]
== Getting help
Having trouble with Spring Boot, We'd like to help!

* Try the <<howto.adoc#howto, How-to's>> -- they provide solutions to the most common
  questions.
* Learn the Spring basics -- Spring Boot is builds on many other Spring projects, check
  the http://spring.io[spring.io] web-site for a wealth of reference documentation. If
  you are just starting out with Spring, try one of the http://spring.io/guides[guides].
* Ask a questions - we monitor http://stackoverflow.com[stackoverflow.com] for questions
  tagged with http://stackoverflow.com/tags/spring-boot[`spring-boot`].
* Report bugs with Spring Boot at https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/issues.

NOTE: All of Spring Boot is open source, including the documentation! If you find problems
with the docs; or if you just want to improve them, please <<github-code, get involved>>.

[[boot-documentation-first-steps]]
== First steps
If your just getting started with Spring Boot, or 'Spring' in general,
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started, this is the place to start!>>

* *From scratch:*
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-introducing-spring-boot, Overview>> |
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-installing-spring-boot, Installation>>
* *Tutorial:*
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application, Part 1>> |
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-code, Part 2>>
* *Running your example:*
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-run, Part 1>> |
  <<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-executable-jar, Part 2>>



== Working with Spring Boot
Ready to actually start using Spring Boot? <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot, We've
got you covered>>.

* *Build systems:*
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-maven, Maven>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-gradle, Gradle>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-ant, Ant>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-starter-poms, Starter POMs>>
* *Best practices:*
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-structuring-your-code, Code Structure>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-configuration-classes, @Configuration>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-auto-configuration, @EnableAutoConfiguration>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-spring-beans-and-dependency-injection, Beans and Dependency Injection>>
* *Running your code*
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-from-an-ide, IDE>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-as-a-packaged-application, Packaged>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-with-the-maven-plugin, Maven>> |
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-with-the-gradle-plugin, Gradle>>
* *Packaging your app:*
  <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-packaging-for-production, Production jars>>
* *Spring Boot CLI:*
<<using-spring-boot-cli.adoc#cli, Using the CLI>>

== Learning about Spring Boot features
Need more details about Spring Boot's core features?
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features, This is for you>>!

* *Core Features:*
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-spring-application, SpringApplication>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-external-config, External Configuration>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-profiles, Profiles>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-logging, Logging>>
* *Web Applications:*
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-spring-mvc, MVC>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-embedded-container, Embedded Containers>>
* *Working with data:*
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-sql, SQL>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-nosql, NO-SQL>>
* *Testing:*
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-testing, Overview>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-testing-spring-boot-applications, Boot Applications>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-test-utilities, Utils>>
* *Extending:*
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-developing-auto-configuration, Auto-configuration>> |
  <<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-condition-annotations, @Conditions>>


== Moving to production
When your ready to push your Spring Boot application to production, we've got
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready, some tricks that you might like>>!

* *Management endpoints:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-endpoints, Overview>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-customizing-endpoints, Customization>>
* *Connection options:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-monitoring, HTTP>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-jmx, JMX>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-remote-shell, SSH>>
* *Monitoring:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-metrics, Metrics>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-auditing, Auditing>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-tracing, Tracing>>

== Advanced topics
Lastly, we have a few topics for the more advanced user.

* *Deploy to the cloud:*
<<cloud-deployment.adoc#cloud-deployment-cloud-foundry, Cloud Foundry>> |
<<cloud-deployment.adoc#cloud-deployment-heroku, Heroku>> |
<<cloud-deployment.adoc#cloud-deployment-cloudbees, CloudBees>>
* *Build tool plugins:*
<<build-tool-plugins.adoc#build-tool-plugins-maven-plugin, Maven>> |
<<build-tool-plugins.adoc#build-tool-plugins-gradle-plugin, Gradle>>
* *Appendix:*
<<appendix-application-properties.adoc#common-application-properties, Application Properties>> |
<<appendix-auto-configuration-classes.adoc#auto-configuration-classes, Auto-configuration classes>> |
<<appendix-executable-jar-format.adoc#executable-jar, Executable Jars>>
